Two Dimensional Cell Averaging Constant False Alarm Rate (2D CFAR)

1. Determine the number of Training cells for range and doppler dimensions
(Tr and Td).
2. Determine the number of Guard cells for range and doppler dimensions
(Gr and Gd).
3. Determine offset the threshold by SNR value in dB.
4. Calculate grid parameters:
    4.1 Grid Size = (2Tr+2Gr+1)(2Td+2Gd+1).
    4.2 The total number of cells in the guard region and cell under test is
    equal G = (2Gr+1)(2Gd+1).
    4.3 This gives the Training Cells number:
    T = (2Tr+2Gr+1)(2Td+2Gd+1)-(2Gr+1)(2Gd+1).
5. Slide the Cell Under Test (CUT) across the complete cell matrix
6. Measure and average the noise across all the training cells. This gives the
threshold as sum of training cells divided by T.
7. Add the offset (if in signal strength in dB) to the threshold to keep the
false alarm to the minimum.
8. Determine the signal level at the Cell Under Test. If the CUT signal level
is greater than the threshold, assign a value of 1, else equate it to zero.
9. Process matrix edges. Since the cell under test are not located at the edges,
due to the training cells occupying the edges, suppress the edges to zero. Any
cell value that is neither 1 nor a 0, assign it a zero.


Selection of Training, Guard cells and offset

The number of training cells is decided based on the environment. There is one target object so Tr and Tr might be increased. For example if a dense traffic scenario then the fewer training cells should be used, as closely spaced targets can impact the noise estimate.

The purpose of the Guard Cells is to avoid the target signal from leaking into the training cells that could adversely affect the noise estimate. The number of guard cells should be decided based on the leakage of the target signal out of the cell under test. In project simple example it is possible to use small values for Gr and Gd.

The purpose offset value is to scale the noise threshold. If the signal strength is defined in logarithmic form then add this offset value to the average noise estimate, else multiply it. The value for this project chosen empirically.


Steps taken to suppress the non-thresholded cells at the edges

For each boundary (top, bottom, left and right), the values in the final matrix are manually zeroed, because the CUT are not located at the edges,
due to the training cells occupying the edges, suppress the edges to zero. The rows and columns are selected according to the selected Training and Guard cells and the value 0 is set.
